<a id="page-116"></a>
---
url: https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions
---

[App Router](/docs/app)[API Reference](/docs/app/api-reference)Functions

# Functions

Last updated February 20, 2026

### [afterAPI Reference for the after function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/after)### [cacheLifeLearn how to use the cacheLife function to set the cache expiration time for a cached function or component.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheLife)### [cacheTagLearn how to use the cacheTag function to manage cache invalidation in your Next.js application.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag)### [connectionAPI Reference for the connection function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/connection)### [cookiesAPI Reference for the cookies function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cookies)### [draftModeAPI Reference for the draftMode function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/draft-mode)### [fetchAPI reference for the extended fetch function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/fetch)### [forbiddenAPI Reference for the forbidden function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/forbidden)### [generateImageMetadataLearn how to generate multiple images in a single Metadata API special file.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-image-metadata)### [generateMetadataLearn how to add Metadata to your Next.js application for improved search engine optimization (SEO) and web shareability.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata)### [generateSitemapsLearn how to use the generateSiteMaps function to create multiple sitemaps for your application.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-sitemaps)### [generateStaticParamsAPI reference for the generateStaticParams function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-static-params)### [generateViewportAPI Reference for the generateViewport function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-viewport)### [headersAPI reference for the headers function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/headers)### [ImageResponseAPI Reference for the ImageResponse constructor.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/image-response)### [NextRequestAPI Reference for NextRequest.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/next-request)### [NextResponseAPI Reference for NextResponse.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/next-response)### [notFoundAPI Reference for the notFound function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/not-found)### [permanentRedirectAPI Reference for the permanentRedirect function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/permanentRedirect)### [redirectAPI Reference for the redirect function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/redirect)### [refreshAPI Reference for the refresh function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/refresh)### [revalidatePathAPI Reference for the revalidatePath function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidatePath)### [revalidateTagAPI Reference for the revalidateTag function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag)### [unauthorizedAPI Reference for the unauthorized function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unauthorized)### [unstable_cacheAPI Reference for the unstable_cache function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unstable_cache)### [unstable_noStoreAPI Reference for the unstable_noStore function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unstable_noStore)### [unstable_rethrowAPI Reference for the unstable_rethrow function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/unstable_rethrow)### [updateTagAPI Reference for the updateTag function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/updateTag)### [useLinkStatusAPI Reference for the useLinkStatus hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-link-status)### [useParamsAPI Reference for the useParams hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-params)### [usePathnameAPI Reference for the usePathname hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-pathname)### [useReportWebVitalsAPI Reference for the useReportWebVitals function.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-report-web-vitals)### [useRouterAPI reference for the useRouter hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-router)### [useSearchParamsAPI Reference for the useSearchParams hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-search-params)### [useSelectedLayoutSegmentAPI Reference for the useSelectedLayoutSegment hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-selected-layout-segment)### [useSelectedLayoutSegmentsAPI Reference for the useSelectedLayoutSegments hook.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/use-selected-layout-segments)### [userAgentThe userAgent helper extends the Web Request API with additional properties and methods to interact with the user agent object from the request.](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/userAgent)

Was this helpful?

supported.

Send
