<a id="page-231"></a>
---
url: https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/guides
---

[Next.js Docs](/docs)[Pages Router](/docs/pages)Guides

# Guides

Last updated February 20, 2026

### [AnalyticsMeasure and track page performance using Next.js](/docs/pages/guides/analytics)### [AuthenticationLearn how to implement authentication in Next.js, covering best practices, securing routes, authorization techniques, and session management.](/docs/pages/guides/authentication)### [BabelExtend the babel preset added by Next.js with your own configs.](/docs/pages/guides/babel)### [CI Build CachingLearn how to configure CI to cache Next.js builds](/docs/pages/guides/ci-build-caching)### [Content Security PolicyLearn how to set a Content Security Policy (CSP) for your Next.js application.](/docs/pages/guides/content-security-policy)### [CSS-in-JSUse CSS-in-JS libraries with Next.js](/docs/pages/guides/css-in-js)### [Custom ServerStart a Next.js app programmatically using a custom server.](/docs/pages/guides/custom-server)### [DebuggingLearn how to debug your Next.js application with VS Code or Chrome DevTools.](/docs/pages/guides/debugging)### [Draft ModeNext.js has draft mode to toggle between static and dynamic pages. You can learn how it works with Pages Router.](/docs/pages/guides/draft-mode)### [Environment VariablesLearn to add and access environment variables in your Next.js application.](/docs/pages/guides/environment-variables)### [FormsLearn how to handle form submissions and data mutations with Next.js.](/docs/pages/guides/forms)### [ISRLearn how to create or update static pages at runtime with Incremental Static Regeneration.](/docs/pages/guides/incremental-static-regeneration)### [InstrumentationLearn how to use instrumentation to run code at server startup in your Next.js app](/docs/pages/guides/instrumentation)### [InternationalizationNext.js has built-in support for internationalized routing and language detection. Learn more here.](/docs/pages/guides/internationalization)### [Lazy LoadingLazy load imported libraries and React Components to improve your application's overall loading performance.](/docs/pages/guides/lazy-loading)### [MDXLearn how to configure MDX to write JSX in your markdown files.](/docs/pages/guides/mdx)### [MigratingLearn how to migrate from popular frameworks to Next.js](/docs/pages/guides/migrating)### [Multi-ZonesLearn how to build micro-frontends using Next.js Multi-Zones to deploy multiple Next.js apps under a single domain.](/docs/pages/guides/multi-zones)### [OpenTelemetryLearn how to instrument your Next.js app with OpenTelemetry.](/docs/pages/guides/open-telemetry)### [Package BundlingLearn how to optimize your application's server and client bundles.](/docs/pages/guides/package-bundling)### [PostCSSExtend the PostCSS config and plugins added by Next.js with your own.](/docs/pages/guides/post-css)### [Preview ModeNext.js has the preview mode for statically generated pages. You can learn how it works here.](/docs/pages/guides/preview-mode)### [ProductionRecommendations to ensure the best performance and user experience before taking your Next.js application to production.](/docs/pages/guides/production-checklist)### [RedirectingLearn the different ways to handle redirects in Next.js.](/docs/pages/guides/redirecting)### [SassLearn how to use Sass in your Next.js application.](/docs/pages/guides/sass)### [ScriptsOptimize 3rd party scripts with the built-in Script component.](/docs/pages/guides/scripts)### [Self-HostingLearn how to self-host your Next.js application on a Node.js server, Docker image, or static HTML files (static exports).](/docs/pages/guides/self-hosting)### [Static ExportsNext.js enables starting as a static site or Single-Page Application (SPA), then later optionally upgrading to use features that require a server.](/docs/pages/guides/static-exports)### [Tailwind CSSStyle your Next.js Application using Tailwind CSS.](/docs/pages/guides/tailwind-v3-css)### [TestingLearn how to set up Next.js with three commonly used testing tools — Cypress, Playwright, Vitest, and Jest.](/docs/pages/guides/testing)### [Third Party LibrariesOptimize the performance of third-party libraries in your application with the `@next/third-parties` package.](/docs/pages/guides/third-party-libraries)### [UpgradingLearn how to upgrade to the latest versions of Next.js.](/docs/pages/guides/upgrading)

Was this helpful?

supported.

Send
